Docs updates for Umbraco Forms 10.2. (#4281)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: Add-ons/UmbracoForms/Developer/IPreValueTextFileStorage/index.md

```json
{
  "Umbraco": {
    "Storage": {
      "AzureBlob": {
        "Forms": {
          "ConnectionString": "UseDevelopmentStorage=true",
          "ContainerName": "sample-container"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Next, add the following composer that adds the Forms storage container and moves the prevalue text files into the Azure Blob Storage (in `forms/PreValueTextFiles/{GUID}/{filename.txt}`):

```csharp
using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Composing;
using Umbraco.Cms.Infrastructure.Scoping;
using Umbraco.Forms.Core.Data;
using Umbraco.StorageProviders.AzureBlob.IO;

public class PreValueTextFileSystemStorageComposer : IComposer
{
    public void Compose(IUmbracoBuilder builder)
        => builder.AddAzureBlobFileSystem("Forms", options => options.VirtualPath = "~/forms")
            .Services.AddUnique<IPreValueTextFileStorage>(factory => new PreValueTextFileSystemStorage(
                factory.GetRequiredService<IAzureBlobFileSystemProvider>().GetFileSystem("Forms"),
                factory.GetRequiredService<IScopeProvider>(),
                "PreValueTextFiles"));
}

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```

You need to manually move the existing files from `umbraco\Data\UmbracoForms\PreValueTextFiles` to your storage container. If you've disabled public access, the stored files are not accessible from the browser.
````

---
versionFrom: 9.0.0
versionTo: 10.0.0
---

# Storing prevalue text files with IPreValueTextFileStorage

Umbraco Forms contains a built-in `Get value from textfile` [Prevalue Source Type](../Extending/Adding-a-Prevaluesourcetype.md) that stores the uploaded text file into the physical file system (by default in  `umbraco\Data\UmbracoForms\PreValueTextFiles`).

You can replace the default implementation by writing your own `IPreValueTextFileStorage` and registering that using e.g. `builder.Services.AddUnique<IPreValueTextFileStorage, CustomPreValueTextFileStorage>()` (in `Startup.cs` or a composer).

Since Forms 10.2, you can also use/inherit from `PreValueTextFileSystemStorage` to change the underlying `IFileSystem` that's used to store the prevalue text files.

> ## Move files to Media file system (10.2 and up)

Reviewer: Besides 10.2, we're also planning to backport this to 9.6 and 8.14. The setup code for v9 will be the same, but for v8 the composer and service registration will be slightly different. What's the best way to add these samples, create separate pages per version?

Author: The convention is to have an `index-v8.md` file with appropriate meta data at the top:

```
---
versionFrom: 8.0.0
versionTo: 8.0.0
meta.Title: "Content Apps"
---
```

See `\Add-ons\UmbracoForms\Developer\ContentApps\` for an example.

Author: This can be done in a separate PR as it'll be available from when the final release goes out, rather than when the RC of 10.2 is.

You can use the following composer to move the prevalue text files into the media file system. If the media file system is using Azure Blob Storage, this will remove the files from the local physical file system.

```csharp
using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Composing;
using Umbraco.Cms.Core.IO;
using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Scoping;
using Umbraco.Forms.Core.Data;

public class PreValueTextFileSystemStorageComposer : IComposer
{
    public void Compose(IUmbracoBuilder builder)
        => builder.Services.AddUnique<IPreValueTextFileStorage>(factory => new PreValueTextFileSystemStorage(
            factory.GetRequiredService<MediaFileManager>().FileSystem,
            factory.GetRequiredService<IScopeProvider>(),
            "PreValueTextFiles"));
}
```

You need to manually move the existing files from `umbraco\Data\UmbracoForms\PreValueTextFiles` to your media storage. The final file path/URL will look like `~/media/PreValueTextFiles/{GUID}/{filename.txt}` and be accessible from the browser.

## Move files to Azure Blob Storage (10.2 and up)

> First install [Umbraco.StorageProviders.AzureBlob](https://github.com/umbraco/Umbraco.StorageProviders) and configure the Forms storage container, e.g. by adding the following to your `appsettings.json`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, install [Umbraco.StorageProviders.AzureBlob](https://github.com/umbraco/Umbraco.StorageProviders) and configure the Forms storage container, for example by adding the following to your `appsettings.json`:
```
